№1: Professional Certificate Program in Machine Learning & Artificial Intelligence By MIT
The first certificate on this list is offered by MIT. The professional certificate program in machine learning and artificial intelligence is a short program offered to people with previous machine learning knowledge and newcomers, giving them the ability to gain the latest knowledge in the field.
This certificate is not cheap — $325 to register for it — because it’s not just a test, rather a full set of courses and materials. This short program's core focuses on using machine learning algorithms and techniques in big data and text processing. But, if you want, you can extend the scope of the certificate — for extra fees — to cover more precise usage of machine learning, such as machine learning in the medical field, or computer version, or efficient deep learning, etc.
Each of the courses in this short program has a set number of days that you need to complete them, and the entire program courses need to be completed within 36 months of registering for the program.

№2: Certificate in Machine Learning By Stanford
The machine learning course and certificate offered by Stanford University is perhaps the better option for those who want to get into machine learning and earn a certificate at the same time. You can either audit the course for free or pay $79 to obtain a certificate upon completing the course.
This course is one of the most famous and wholesome machine learning courses you could come by; it is taught by professor Andrew Ng one of Coursera's founders and an instructor with more than 10 million happy students. The machine learning course alone was taken/still by almost 4 million students. The course also offers subtitles in 10 languages for students whose English is not their first or preferred language.
During this course — 11 weeks — you will learn everything from the absolute beginning, covering maths and statistics to machine learning algorithms' fundamentals and their application in computer vision, medicine, audio manipulation, and database mining.

№3: IBM Machine Learning Professional Certificate
Another certificate you can earn by taking a course on Coursera is the machine learning professional certificate offered by one of the computing industry legends, IBM. Like the Stanford University course, you can audit this course for free or earn a $39/ month certificate.
This professional certificate program includes 6 courses covering all the knowledge you need to understand both the theoretical aspects of machine learning algorithms and their practical uses. Although you may make more of the course if one has some programming knowledge, you can still take this course even if you don’t know much programming.
This course will also teach you how to use Jupyter notebooks and IBM Watson to build and develop your own projects to add to your portfolio once you have completed the course.
5 Types of Machine Learning Bias Every Data Scientist Should Know
To fix your bias, you need to know why it happened.
towardsdatascience.com

№4: Machine Learning Certificate By Harvard
The final course-based certificate in this list is the machine learning certificate offered by Harvard University on edX. This course is a part of a bigger, broader data science certificate offered by Harvard University. You can either audit this course or earn a certificate upon completion for $99.
This course will cover the basics of machine learning, the basic algorithms, and techniques, how and when to use cross-validation, how to build a recommendation system, and some of the commonly used, most popular, and new machine learning algorithms.
This course is designed to be completed within 8 weeks. However, it is also self-paced, which means you can take however amount of time you need to finish this course and earn your certificate.
№5: Professional Machine Learning Engineer By Google
So far, all the certificates we covered required a specific course or a set of courses to be completed to earn the certificate. The professional machine learning engineer certificate by Google is different. This is just a certificate, meaning you need only to take a test to obtain this certificate.
For $200, you can take this Google test to measure your familiarity and ability to frame machine learning problems, design solutions, process data, and develop machine learning models. Not just that, you also need to show that you can automate efficient machine learning pipelines and optimize your solutions.
Although this certificate is not accompanied by a course that you must take to earn the certificate, Google still offers materials that you can use to prepare for the test as well as webinars given by Google experts to help you pass that test and make the most of the provided materials.
6 Web Scraping Tools That Make Collecting Data A Breeze
The first step of any data science project is data collection.
towardsdatascience.com

№6: AWS Certified Machine Learning
A more specific certificate is offered by Amazon, in particular the AWS system. The AWS certified machine learning is a certificate designed to measure one’s ability to design, develop and deploy machine learning models using the AWS cloud. This certificate can be obtained with a fee of $400.
Similar to the Google machine learning engineer certificate, the AWS certified machine learning specialty doesn’t require a specific course completion to obtain. This certificate is aimed more towards people who are very familiar with machine learning algorithms and techniques rather than complete beginners.
The test is available in three languages, English, Korean and Chinese. Amazon also offers some materials and practice tests that you can use to prepare for the test and pass it from the first try.
